Okay.
So the next file that I want to move to, TypeScript, is going to be our Mutations jazz file once again
in the source store directory.
So as always, let's right click it, let's click rename and let's change the extension to T.
S.
All right.
So at this point, we're going to see some helpful errors coming from TypeScript.
And if I hover my mouse over one of them, such as this one, we're going to say that TypeScript thinks
that parameter state implicitly has an any type.
Remember, any is not a good type to have because it basically loses the entire value of having TypeScript.
So we need to explicitly tell TypeScript what state represents, what is going to be the shape or the
type of that argument.
Well, luckily, we already have a very helpful interface that describes exactly what state is going
to be.
We have our global state interface.
This thing right here is exactly the kind of object that we're going to be receiving as the first argument
to every mutation.
Because remember, every mutation in view X always receives the current store state as the first parameter
and a current.
And in our current store state, we'll always have this interface right here.
It's always going to have those four properties with those four types associated with them.
So you guessed it.
Let's go ahead and import global state and use it.
So right here I'm going to import global state and that is going to come from our source directory,
our store folder and then the types file.
That's the exact same one we have on the right hand side.
And then it's a simple matter of going to every state parameter definition, putting a colon and then
describing what type that state parameter has.
So this is going to be an object that has the global state interface.
Same thing here for this mutation.
This is also going to be global state, same thing here.
This is also going to be global state and same thing here.
This is also going to be a global state.
It really is that easy.
Now, here is the beautiful part about this design.
By enabling this, we've told TypeScript that our mutations are receiving our state object that has
this interface, this shape.
So it's going to know which properties we have access to and what their values are going to be.
So once again, if I accidentally have some kind of typo, like, for example, I miss type jobs here
and do jobs with it with a Z.
Now TypeScript knows that the state parameter flowing in only has a jobs property ending in S, it doesn't
have a jobs property ending in Z.
So if I hover my mouse, it's going to say, hey, that property jobs does not exist on type global
state.
And that, of course, convinces me that I should change it to a.
S.
Here's another example where it can help us and don't copy this, because this is just for the sake
of example.
Let's say I tried to assign this jobs array to an array of strings and b TypeScript is similarly going
to give us an error because it's going to say, yes, jobs is an array, but jobs is an array of job
objects and each job object has to implement the properties you promised me on a job interface.
An array of strings is not equal to an array of jobs.
Therefore it's going to say type string is not assignable to type job.
This array can only hold objects that implement the job interface.
So once again, TypeScript is helping us to identify potential errors in our program.
Right.
It's not just about typos.
It's also about logical lapses of judgment that we can have on coding.
Sometimes it's inevitable as our code base grows in size and complexity, that we make errors like this.
TypeScript is really helpful when it comes to reminding us, Hey, that thing, that value that you
thought it was, it's actually a different type.
Be careful.
So let me let me return this back to being an argument of of the parameter jobs.
And then, of course, all that's left to do is to also update these parameters right here.
Jobs, organizations and job types.
Well, jobs, of course, is going to be an array of jobs.
So let's go ahead and import our job interface.
So right here, I'm going to import job and that is going to come from our source directory API types.
That was one of the first interfaces we defined in our project.
And right here, jobs of course, is going to flow in as a job array, an array of job objects.
And once again, TypeScript is going to validate that this assignment on line 16 is totally valid because
jobs has to be a job array.
And what we're assigning to it, jobs, this parameter is also a job, right?
So it validates that the types of the arrays match as well.
And this is a totally valid assignment.
Right.
For example, just to show you this again in action, we know that selected organizations is an array
of strings when it comes to our global state or in other words, our View X Store State.
Take a look at what happens if I accidentally say that organization's here is an array of numbers.
So still an array but an array of the wrong data type.
Take a look at what TypeScript is going to tell us.
It's going to say, hey, your type of number array that is represented by the organizations parameter
that you're trying to assign that's not assignable to what's selected organizations is or supposed to
be, which is a string array type number array is not assignable to type string array.
All right.
So that tells us there's something we have to fix, right?
It could either be that our property is incorrect or as it is in this scenario, it's that our type
declaration for our organization's parameter is incorrect.
It's not a number array.
It's going to be a string array.
And now selected organizations is a string array.
We're overwriting the current value of that property with our organization's parameter, which is also
a string array.
So TypeScript says, That looks good to me.
Those types match.
I'm really happy and I'm not going to raise any complaints.
All right.
So all we have left to do in this file is once again repeat the same logic for job types that's going
to flow in from our component again whenever the user selects a checkbox.
So once again, I'm simply going to label this a string array, save that TypeScript is happy with all
the properties that were accessing.
They're all correctly spelled.
It's happy with what we're assigning to it to validate that it is receiving the correct data type for
that property.
And now using TypeScript, we've made our mutations checks a lot more robust.
All right.
That's all there is to cover in this lesson.
So I will see you in the next one.